# Extracted from sample_data.mp4 (VIDEO)

[AUDIO TRANSCRIBED FROM sample_data.mp4]

✅ Audio extraction & transcription successful!
🎵 Audio format: wav
📊 Sample rate: 16000 Hz
🔊 Channels: 1 (mono)
🗣️  Language: Unknown
⏱️  Duration: 523 seconds
🎯 Confidence: 0.98043185
🤖 Model: universal (AssemblyAI)

📝 TRANSCRIPT:
Hi, I'm Jimmy Wright, an accredited nutritionist and I specialize in helping people all across the world achieve their goals without any silly fad diets. On today's episode of Nutritionist Explained we're going to be talking about what is a balanced diet? How we feel ourselves matters. Now, I hope that doesn't come to a surprise to any of you, but our diet directly impacts both our physical and mental health, and for you athletes out there, it's also critically influential in your recovery and performance and body composition. In this episode of Nutritionist Explains, we're going to talk about all things balanced diet and how you can piece together a diet that works for you and supports you in moving towards your goals. Balanced or healthy diet means many different things to many different groups of people. We live in an age whereby I genuinely don't think I could give a definition of a balanced diet without upsetting someone. So I've gone and I've dug to find the version of a balanced diet that I believe will appeal to the majority of you watching. But before I jump into that, let's look at the most popular iterations of a balanced diet. Let's start off with the UK's Eat well guide, a pictorial representation of a healthy diet which superseded the well Plate in 2016. The guide is split into five categories with the following daily recommendations. Aim to eat at least five portions of fruit and veg a day. A third of your daily energy intake should come from potatoes, fruit, bread, rice, pasta and other starchy carbohydrates, with an aim to choose whole grain or higher fiber options where possible. The guide recommends having some beans, pulses, fish, eggs, meat and other proteins, including two portions of fish every week, of which one should be oily. The guide also recommends to include some dairy or dairy alternatives such as soya drinks, aiming to choose lower fat and lower sugar options where possible. And finally, the guide also asks to incorporate small amounts of unsaturated oils and spreads. The EAT Guide also provides some suggestions for energy intake and maintaining adequate hydration, but these are rather generic. On to the next set of balanced diet principles. I wanted to touch on the United States version of the Eat well guide. My plate. Myplate was first introduced in 2011 and replaced MyPyramid, which ultimately got scrapped because it was so confusing. On the surface, MyPlate and the eat well Guide aren't hugely dissimilar. Both would have a greater preference for carbohydrates over fats and protein, and both advocate for more plants in the diet. The MyPlate is slightly different in that it is more simplistic and is divided into four categories grains, vegetables, fruits and protein, with a smaller circle outside of the plate to represent dairy. The MY plate also has more defined percentage based recommendations compared to the Eat well guide and recommends that 30% of your diet or plate is grains, 40% of it is vegetables, 10% is fruits and the remaining 20% is protein. Now, before I launched into two of the more popular sets of balanced diet guidelines, I did say that I had dug pretty deep on the subject to find you, at least in my mind, the best set of general healthy eating guidelines. Want to know where I find them? South Korea. They use the food balance wheels now the reason why I'm a fan of the food balance wheels over some other balanced diet guidelines is the advocacy for more protein in the diet as they recommend food three to four portions per day. While that recommendation, at least in its practical application without further education on appropriate serving sizes, may not be optimal for health, at least in my opinion, it does appear to help influence Koreans in achieving a better daily intake of protein compared to other countries who often fall short of the recommended daily intake. A 2013 study investigated the impact of adherence to the food balance wheels on health outcomes. This study included over 5,000 data sets collected from people involved in the Korean National Health and Nutritional Examination Survey. That's quite a mouthful. Those with the greatest levels of adherence to the guidelines were at the lowest risk of diabetes, hypertension, osteoporosis and cardiovascular disease. They were also much more likely to be able to maintain and manage a healthy weight. Let's have a bit of fun. Why don't we give it a crack at trying to make our own guidelines a goal orientated balanced diet. Where better to start with a perfect balanced diet than energy intake? Understanding your energy intake needs in advance of determining your macronutrient goals and ultimately planning your meals is essentially laying a foundation. Personally, I would recommend the use of a calorie calculator here. These calculators will help you to determine the energy intake you need to take in each day to maintain or change your current weight. My advice would be to try to use a calculator which factors in your physical activity levels too, as without that, the intake suggested may be inadequate. Everyone's favorite next fruits and I'm just kidding. Let's focus on protein. Now in terms of hierarchy of actual importance for survivability and health, you could argue that protein and plants are level par. But that's really just if we were referring to the vitamins and minerals achieved through plant intake. Fortunately, nutrients don't tend to exist in isolation, so almost all of the food and fluid sources of protein available to us would also contribute to vitamin and mineral intake. Also, we don't have the time to go into each vitamin mineral individually, so for the purpose of our theoretical guidelines, we'll be grouping them within the fruits and vegetables category. Bear in mind that fruits and veggies can also contribute to protein intake, but let's not start getting into the weeds here. The current recommendations for dietary protein intake have been suggested to not be sufficient to promote optimal muscle health, so how about we come up with a new one? Now, if we were to consider a broad guideline for daily protein intake that could possibly provide the most health benefit across the board, then we may wish to consider recommending somewhere between 1.3 to 2.2 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight per day. This suggestion is based on findings looking at weight management requirements for athletic populations and reducing the risk of sarcopenia which is age related loss of muscle mass, frailty and fall risk in the elderly. For simplicity's sake, that could look like a palm sized portion of protein three to five times per day, depending on your own unique requirements. I would make a similar portion recommendation for plants at each meal, which leads me into the next guideline. How many plants should we be having per day? Well, ideally as much as possible, as a general rule of thumb or palm if you're using that, we should be aiming for five portions of fruit and veggies a day to make your life easier. In achieving this guideline, a few simple tips would be to plan in a stir fry and incorporate soup into your routine. Add fruits like blueberries to your breakfast and throw in vegetables to recipes to increase the bulk and make the meal go further for yourself or your family. The next nutrient in focus has to be dietary fats. Dietary fats matter because there are essential fatty acids which we have to attain from our diet because we can't produce them ourselves. These are the omega 3 fatty acids and omega 6 fatty acids. I'll not cover their function in too much depth in this video, but they're involved in many different aspects of the human body ranging from the immune system to the cellular structures of your brain. These kinds of fats are found predominantly in oily fish and plant based foods such as nuts, seeds and certainly few veg. While deficiency in these fats is rare and we tend to get plenty of omega 6 fatty acids in our diet as it is, I would recommend making a conscious effort to include fat sources rich in omega 3 fatty acids on a daily basis for optimal health or even consider supplementing with them. The final food category I'd like to briefly discuss are the carbohydrates. I'd recommend focusing on whole grains and fiber rich sources of carbohydrates at main meal times, and timing the intake of starchy carbohydrates or sugary carbs around exercise to help fuel performance and to optimize recovery. For those who prefer having a higher carbohydrate intake, roughly a clenched fist to a palm sized portion will suffice in keeping you fueled. And for those of you who are fans of dietary fat over carbohydrate as your primary fuel source, that's fine too. I would be mindful of the types of dietary fat you're taking in and you may also wish to get your blood lipids checked at least once a year just to make sure everything is fine on that end. And the final point to touch on with these guidelines is hydration. Two things I'd like to mention here. Keep the sugar sweetened added sugar rich drinks to a minimum. They're really not great for us to maintain adequate hydration. Adjust your fluids based on your pee colour. If it's straw yellow to clear you're well hydrated. If it's darker than that you will want to drink a bit more. But you also don't want it to be so clear that you're at risk of being overhydrated. And that's the guidelines. As always, don't forget to like this video and hit subscribe to the MyProtein YouTube channel for more helpful content and be sure to keep asking the team questions so we can keep providing you with more evidence based answers.